

## Technical Assistance Providers ##

* [The World Bank](technical-assistance.html). Provides technical assistance, training and capacity
development to support Open Data implementation and engagement in client countries. Using the [Open Data Readiness
Assessment](odra.html) methodology, the Bank can conduct a quick review of a government's current capabilities and
develop an action plan for implementation.

* [UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA)](http://www.unpan.org/DPADM). Supports the United Nations
Programme on Public Administration & Development and assists UN Member States in fostering transparent, accountable,
citizen-centered public governance, administration and services by using innovation and technology. UNDESA facilitates
access to information, methodologies, assessments and policy proposals and the dissemination of best practices. Its
[services](http://www.unpan.org/DPADM/Home/WhatWeDo/tabid/555/language/en-US/Default.aspx) include support for
intergovernmental processes; comparative policy research and analysis; information sharing; and advisory services.

* [Open Knowledge Foundation (OKFN)](http://okfn.org/). Uses advocacy, technology and training to unlock key information
and enable people to share knowledge. OKFN coordinates an international network of individuals engaged in [promoting
openness](https://okfn.org/about/) and helping it reach its full potential. The foundation monitors levels of openness
worldwide and provides commercial technical services and training in data skills. It also enhances the culture of
openness with products and services including [CKAN](http://ckan.org/), an open source data portal platform, and the
[Open Data Handbook](http://opendatahandbook.org/). 

* [Open Data Institute (ODI)](http://theodi.org/). Promotes a culture of Open Data to create economic, environmental and
social value. The ODI helps unlock the supply of and generate demand for information and knowledge, and creates and
disseminates knowledge to address local and global issues. It also convenes world-class experts to collaborate and
nurture new ideas and promote innovation with projects such as the [Partnership for Open
Data](https://www.facebook.com/p4opendata/info). Its coaching and mentoring services and support enable anyone to learn
and engage with Open Data.

* [Open Data Roster of
Experts](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0Ag2jK9SJ96ppdGtoQUpjWklwN2ZRQTRpRy1GSE5qSlE&usp=sharing). A Google
spreadsheet of expert consultants, developed by circulating an information form to a list of professionals in the
[LinkedIn group](http://www.linkedin.com/groups?home=&gid=4077335&trk=anet_ug_hm&goback=.anp_4077335_1340203412845_1)
and elsewhere. Note that this roster is self-selected and self-reported, and does not imply endorsement by the World
Bank or any other organizations.

## Sources of Financial Support ##

* [The World Bank](technical-assistance.html). Provides a range of programs that support Open Data
implementation and use Open Data to address specific challenges.

* [Ford Foundation](http://www.fordfoundation.org/). Funds capacity building and technical assistance efforts that
increase the participation of marginalized communities in
[building and maintaining democratic, accountable government](http://www.fordfoundation.org/issues/democratic-and-accountable-government/promoting-transparent-effective-and-accountable-government).
The Ford Foundation strengthens networks that build and mobilize grassroots efforts for social change. Its funded
initiatives include the [World Wide Web Foundation](http://www.fordfoundation.org/grants/grantdetails?grantid=122103)
and the [Global Partnership for Social
Accountability](http://www.fordfoundation.org/grants/grantdetails?grantid=119996). 

* [Gates Foundation](http://www.gatesfoundation.org/Pages/home.aspx). Develops tools for the philanthropic sector that
helps increase its ability to help people worldwide -- especially in areas of greatest need -- live healthier, more
productive lives. The Gates Foundation [shares high-quality
data](http://www.gatesfoundation.org/How-We-Work/General-Information/Information-Sharing-Approach) to foster effective
collaboration with its partners, so they can better understand the problems they're trying to solve and learn from each
other's experiences. It commits to transparency by providing access to its strategies, outcomes (including datasets),
financial data, grants database and data analysis and visualization tools, as well as by endorsing and engaging with
information standardization and Open Data efforts.

* [Open Society Foundations](http://www.soros.org/). Works to build societies whose governments are accountable and open
to the participation of all people. It supports efforts that [expand and protect press
freedoms](http://www.opensocietyfoundations.org/topics/freedom-information), increase public access to knowledge and
information and include minority voices in the media. The Open Society Foundations advocate the use of new technology to
bring new opportunities for knowledge creation and dissemination, and support work that promotes [access to
knowledge](http://www.opensocietyfoundations.org/topics/access-knowledge), particularly among disadvantaged groups.

* [Knight Foundation](http://www.knightfoundation.org/). Supports transformational ideas that promote quality
journalism, advance media innovation, engage communities and foster the arts, primarily within the 26 U.S. communities
in which the Knight brothers owned newspapers. The Knight Foundation encourages open information systems that empower
communities; establish standards for free flow of information; and turn Open Data into useful products. It also supports
efforts such as The [Sunlight Foundation](http://www.sunlightfoundation.com) and [Wikipedia
Zero](http://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Wikipedia_Zero), and provides early-stage venture funding for [media
innovation](http://www.knightfoundation.org/what-we-fund/innovating-media).  

* [Hewlett Foundation](http://www.hewlett.org/). Improves government responsiveness to citizen needs by encouraging
public agencies and officials to provide greater transparency and broader access to operations and budget data. The
foundation supports institutions that advocate for standards for greater openness, and funds programs such as the [Open
Government Partnership](http://www.opengovpartnership.org/), which brings governments and civil society together to
develop plans that further accountability and citizen involvement. The foundation is a signatory to the International
Aid Transparency Initiative, which promotes [transparency in international aid flows](http://iatiregistry.org).  
