
For Open Data to have impact and value, it must be put to use. Hence, making data usable is a vital component of a
successful Open Data initiative. Usable data frequently share several important features, including [machine
readability](essentials.html#defined), [clear licensing](essentials.html#licenses) and [complete
metadata](supply.html).

Two indicators of a successful Open Data initiative is when developers harness Open Data to produce new and valuable
products and services, or when they integrate Open Data into existing products and services. In an ideal scenario, this
leads to a "virtuous cycle," where new products increase [demand for Open Data](demand.html), which
catalyzes the release of more datasets, the development of new applications and so forth. A similarly patterned cycle
can lead to improvements in data quality; that is, as users raise questions and provide feedback on data they are trying
to use, data providers have an opportunity to improve metadata and other background information.

The following list includes examples of applications built on Open Data, grouped by subject. Many were developed for
competitions, hackathons or other [demand-side activities](demand.html) to promote the use of Open Data
for specific purposes.

### Environment

* [mWater](http://mwater.co/). A free suite of tools that uses GPS, cloud-based computing and mobile technology to
  create an integrated approach to managing water and sanitation services and preventing waterborne diseases and their
  impacts on communities.

* [Save the Rain](http://save-the-rain.com/SR2/). This app shows users how they can help reduce the impact of the
  alarming worldwide drop in annual rainfall predicted by The World Bank. Using maps and a novel "rooftop rainwater
  harvesting" approach, users estimate the amount of rainwater they can potentially save each year.

* [Ecofacts](http://www.jengibre.com.ar/ecofacts/). A small app that provides information about energy consumption and
  climate change, and how their effects on the environment can be influenced by citizens and communities.

### Budget and Spending

* [OpenSpending](http://www.openspending.org/). This app tracks government financial
  transactions world wide and presents them in useful, engaging formats that appeal to a variety of users, from schoolchildren to data geeks. It features an open database of financial information; a
  community of users and contributors; and a set of open resources with technical, fiscal and political data.

* [Moldova BOOST](http://moldova.wb-boost.org/). This app collects and compiles from national treasury systems detailed
  data on Moldovan public expenditures and presents them in a simple, user-friendly format.

* [African Budget Data
  Explorer](http://twaweza.org/uploads/flash/budget-visualization-000/Twaweza.html#/home/viewType=Bubbles&split=Function&spending=Actual&year=2010-11).
  Using an "explorable" time series of visualizations of African budgets, this initiative enables users to "follow the
  money," unpack and understand budget priorities, inform election priorities and voice their opinions to ensure services
  are responsive to budgets.

### Health and Education

* [CheckMySchool](http://www.checkmyschool.org/main-page). In an effort to improve public education
  services, this monitoring program combines digital technology and community mobilization to promote accountability and transparency. It provides easy access to information and a
  platform for feedback, and helps citizens and government officials collaboratively resolve education issues.

* [Merge of HealthFacility](https://www.google.com/fusiontables/DataSource?docid=1iBYvn8Cu-cpPDB2M4rpKhFIobfUlcycIGEo1E-4#map:id=3). A health facilities location
  application from the Ghana Open Data Initiative (GODI) at National Information Technology Agency (NITA).

### Public Service Delivery

* [Spikes Cavell](http://www.spikescavell.net/default.aspx). An organization that equips decision makers in higher
education and the public sector with the tools they need to reduce costs, increase transparency and benchmark
performance to improve procurement of goods and services. Its platform addresses incomplete orÂ inappropriately
classified data or data distributed across partially integrated systems by transforming it into business intelligence.

* [Elgin (UK street works)](http://www.elgin.org.uk/). Roadworks Information Unlimited delivers real-time access to
information on road repair and construction for local authorities, motorways and truck routes across England and Wales
via websites, navigation systems and mobile devices. Users can view where and when road work is taking place and who is
responsible and assess transportation impacts.

* [PoliceUK](http://www.police.uk/). This app enables citizens to engage with police and promotes community activism in
support of crime prevention. It provides snapshots of street-level crime occurrences and outcomes, by category, using
maps and data from local policing teams and beat meetings.

### Open Government

* [Civic Commons](http://commons.codeforamerica.org/apps). An information product that helps governments and
institutions share knowledge, solutions and best practices to make better use of technology and advance Open Data and
Open Government. It supports a community of civic technologists by sharing not only a repository of government and civic
apps and information, but also its application code.

* [Socrata Open Data Applications](http://pinterest.com/socrata/open-data-applications/). A repository of examples that
demonstrate how Open Data is enabling civic applications.

* [GotToVote!](http://gottovote.co.ke/).  A data-driven tool to help citizens decipher and act on news-related issues by
showing how national events, such as elections, affect them personally. Built as a Code4Kenya data journalism project,
the tool provides citizens with local election results contextualized with information about community trends and
reports on irregularities.
  

### Other

* [BrightScope](http://www.brightscope.com/about/plan-management-dashboard/). This tool brings transparency to opaque
markets by allowing employers, employees and others to benchmark its benefit plans to those of a customized peer group
of competitor companies. It automatically collects key financial data for analytics and primarily operates in two major
segments: Retirement plans and wealth management.

* [DataViva](http://dataviva.info/). With more than 100 million interactive visualizations, this tool opens government
data -- including exports, locations and occupations -- for the entire formal sector of the Brazilian economy and
creates a foundation for dialog between public and private sectors.
